# Todo

This section contains long-term todos. Some kind of roadmap, of one wants to put
it that way.

## Modules

Modules imag should offer which are not yet started or in progress, including a
short note what each module should do.

First the modules which have been implemented in some way (not necessarily
perfect or feature-complete):

- [x] imag-bookmark - A bookmark manager for web browsing.
- [x] imag-diary - A diary, or multiple.
- [x] imag-counter - Counting things.
- [x] imag-link - Linking imag entries to eachother
- [x] imag-notes - Note taking
- [x] imag-ref - Refering to files outside the imag store.
- [x] imag-tag - Tagging imag entries
- [x] imag-view - Viewing imag entries

Now the modules that are not yet started:

- [ ] imag-bibliography - For handling bibliographic references when writing
  scientific papers. Like Citavi, for example.
- [ ] imag-borrow - If you lend something to someone.
- [ ] imag-calendar - Calendar tooling based on icalendar files. No sync
  functionality.
- [ ] imag-category - For categorizing imag entries. Categories must exist
  before an entry can have a category.
- [ ] imag-contact - Contact tooling based on vcard files. No sync
  functionality.
- [ ] imag-cuecards - Cuecards for learning things, for example vocabulary.
- [ ] imag-filter - command to read the store from stdin, filter out entries
  based on a predicate specified via the CLI and write the store back to stdout.
- [ ] imag-git - wrapper to call git commands on the imag store no matter
  whether the current working directory is the store or not
- [ ] imag-gps - Adding GPS coordinates to entries
- [ ] imag-habit - Tracking ones habits (create habits and make sure you do what
  you've planned)
- [ ] imag-image - Image referencing, categorizing, etc.
- [ ] imag-item - Creating entries for Items in the store
- [ ] imag-ledger - Ledger functionality like beancountcand others
- [ ] imag-list - Managing lists
- [ ] imag-mail - Mail handling tool, a CLI-mutt like tool.
- [ ] imag-movie - Movie database handling, categorization and such things
- [ ] imag-music - Music database handling, categorization and such things.
  Possibly a scrobble server.
- [ ] imag-news - A RSS Reader
- [ ] imag-project - A project planner, integrated with imag-timetrack and
  imag-todo
- [ ] imag-rate - Attaching a rating to an entry
- [ ] imag-read - Command to load the store and pipe it to stdout (usefull for
  piping/ chaining commands)
- [ ] imag-receipt - Creating, categorizing, managing receipts
- [ ] imag-shoppinglists - Managing shopping lists
- [ ] imag-store - Low Level CLI Store interface
- [ ] imag-summary - Meta-command to call a set of imag commands (configurable
  which) and displaying their outputs
- [ ] imag-timetrack - Tracking time like with timewarrior
- [ ] imag-todo - Tracking tasks like with taskwarrior
- [ ] imag-url - Extracting URLs from enties, saving URLs to the imag store
- [ ] imag-weather - Weather tooling for getting forecast and recording a
  history of weather
- [ ] imag-weight - Weight tracker
- [ ] imag-wiki - A wiki for personal use
- [ ] imag-workout - Tools for tracking workouts. One sub-module will be
  step-counter tracking
- [ ] imag-write - Command to read the store from stdin and write it to the
  filesystem store (usefull for piping/chaining commands)

## Libraries

- [x] Rewrite libimagerror to be based on `chain-error` crate. This basically
  removes our error infrastructure, though existing traits and convenience
  functionality should be kept (for example the `MapErrInto` or the `IntoError`
  traits), as much as possible). If the switch to `chain-error` would require
  too much code to be rewritten, reconsider.
- [ ] Ensure all libraries are implemented as extension traits rather than
  wrapping store types
- [ ] Rewrite logger to allow config/env-var based module white/blacklisting and
  writing log to file

## User Interface

- [ ] Ensure store ids are always passed as positional arguments

## Project structure and development

- [ ] Move away from github
  - [ ] Have own issue tracking (possibly git-dit)
  - [ ] Find a solution to having no travis-ci via github anymore

  - [ ] Setup a viewer for the mailinglist archive
- [ ] Add maintainer scripts to repository
  - [ ] To check patches for Signed-off-by lines
	- [ ] To automatically craft a reply to a contributor about a missing
	  signed-off-by line
	- [ ] To automatically craft a reply to a contributor about a patchset that
	  cannot be applied
  - [ ] To check pull requests for GPG signatures
  - [ ] To apply a patchset in a new branch

